docs/en/seatunnel-engine/rest-api-v2.md, before:

---
sidebar_position: 12
---

# RESTful API V2

SeaTunnel has a monitoring API that can be used to query status and statistics of running jobs, as well as recent
completed jobs. The monitoring API is a RESTful API that accepts HTTP requests and responds with JSON data.

## Overview

The v2 version of the api uses jetty support. It is the same as the interface specification of v1 version
, you can specify the port and context-path by modifying the configuration items in `seatunnel.yaml`


```yaml

seatunnel:
  engine:
    http:
      enable-http: true
      port: 8080
```

Context-path can also be configured as follows:

```yaml

seatunnel:
  engine:
    http:
      enable-http: true
      port: 8080
      context-path: /seatunnel
```

## API reference

### Returns an overview over the Zeta engine cluster.

<details>
 <summary><code>GET</code> <code><b>/overview?tag1=value1&tag2=value2</b></code> <code>(Returns an overview over the Zeta engine cluster.)</code></summary>

#### Parameters

> |   name   |   type   | data type |                                             description                                              |
> |----------|----------|-----------|------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
> | tag_name | optional | string    | the tags filter, you can add tag filter to get those matched worker count, and slot on those workers |

#### Responses

```json
{
    "projectVersion":"2.3.5-SNAPSHOT",
    "gitCommitAbbrev":"DeadD0d0",
    "totalSlot":"0",
    "unassignedSlot":"0",
    "works":"1",
    "runningJobs":"0",
    "finishedJobs":"0",
    "failedJobs":"0",
    "cancelledJobs":"0"
}
```

**Notes:**
- If you use `dynamic-slot`, the `totalSlot` and `unassignedSlot` always be `0`. when you set it to fix slot number, it will return the correct total and unassigned slot number
- If the url has tag filter, the `works`, `totalSlot` and `unassignedSlot` will return the result on the matched worker. but the job related metric will always return the cluster level information.

</details>

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

### Returns An Overview And State Of All Jobs

<details>
 <summary><code>GET</code> <code><b>/running-jobs</b></code> <code>(Returns an overview over all jobs and their current state.)</code></summary>

#### Parameters

#### Responses

```json
[
  {
    "jobId": "",
    "jobName": "",
    "jobStatus": "",
    "envOptions": {
    },
    "createTime": "",
    "jobDag": {
      "jobId": "",
      "envOptions": [],
      "vertexInfoMap": [
        {
          "vertexId": 1,
          "type": "",
          "vertexName": "",
          "tablePaths": [
            ""
          ]
        }
      ],
      "pipelineEdges": {}
    },
    "pluginJarsUrls": [
    ],
    "isStartWithSavePoint": false,
    "metrics": {
      "sourceReceivedCount": "",
      "sinkWriteCount": ""
    }
  }
]
```

</details>

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

### Return Details Of A Job

<details>
 <summary><code>GET</code> <code><b>/job-info/:jobId</b></code> <code>(Return details of a job. )</code></summary>

#### Parameters

> | name  |   type   | data type | description |
> |-------|----------|-----------|-------------|
> | jobId | required | long      | job id      |

#### Responses

```json
{
  "jobId": "",
  "jobName": "",
  "jobStatus": "",
  "createTime": "",
  "jobDag": {
    "jobId": "",
    "envOptions": [],
    "vertexInfoMap": [
      {
        "vertexId": 1,
        "type": "",
        "vertexName": "",
        "tablePaths": [
          ""
        ]
      }
    ],
    "pipelineEdges": {}
  },
  "metrics": {
    "sourceReceivedCount": "",
    "sinkWriteCount": ""
  },
  "finishedTime": "",
  "errorMsg": null,
  "envOptions": {
  },
  "pluginJarsUrls": [
  ],
  "isStartWithSavePoint": false
}
```

`jobId`, `jobName`, `jobStatus`, `createTime`, `jobDag`, `metrics` always be returned.
`envOptions`, `pluginJarsUrls`, `isStartWithSavePoint` will return when job is running.
`finishedTime`, `errorMsg` will return when job is finished.

When we can't get the job info, the response will be:

```json
{
  "jobId" : ""
}
```

</details>

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

### Return Details Of A Job

This API has been deprecated, please use /job-info/:jobId instead

<details>
 <summary><code>GET</code> <code><b>/running-job/:jobId</b></code> <code>(Return details of a job. )</code></summary>

#### Parameters

> | name  |   type   | data type | description |
> |-------|----------|-----------|-------------|
> | jobId | required | long      | job id      |

#### Responses

```json
{
  "jobId": "",
  "jobName": "",
  "jobStatus": "",
  "createTime": "",
  "jobDag": {
    "jobId": "",
    "envOptions": [],
    "vertexInfoMap": [
      {
        "vertexId": 1,
        "type": "",
        "vertexName": "",
        "tablePaths": [
          ""
        ]
      }
    ],
    "pipelineEdges": {}
  },
  "metrics": {
    "SourceReceivedCount": "",
    "SourceReceivedQPS": "",
    "SourceReceivedBytes": "",
    "SourceReceivedBytesPerSeconds": "",
    "SinkWriteCount": "",
    "SinkWriteQPS": "",
    "SinkWriteBytes": "",
    "SinkWriteBytesPerSeconds": "",
    "TableSourceReceivedCount": {},
    "TableSourceReceivedBytes": {},
    "TableSourceReceivedBytesPerSeconds": {},
    "TableSourceReceivedQPS": {},
    "TableSinkWriteCount": {},
    "TableSinkWriteQPS": {},
    "TableSinkWriteBytes": {},
    "TableSinkWriteBytesPerSeconds": {}
  },
  "finishedTime": "",
  "errorMsg": null,
  "envOptions": {
  },
  "pluginJarsUrls": [
  ],
  "isStartWithSavePoint": false
}
```

`jobId`, `jobName`, `jobStatus`, `createTime`, `jobDag`, `metrics` always be returned.
`envOptions`, `pluginJarsUrls`, `isStartWithSavePoint` will return when job is running.
`finishedTime`, `errorMsg` will return when job is finished.

When we can't get the job info, the response will be:

```json
{
  "jobId" : ""
}
```

</details>

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

### Return All Finished Jobs Info

<details>
 <summary><code>GET</code> <code><b>/finished-jobs/:state</b></code> <code>(Return all finished Jobs Info.)</code></summary>

#### Parameters

> | name  |   type   | data type |                           description                            |
> |-------|----------|-----------|------------------------------------------------------------------|
> | state | optional | string    | finished job status. `FINISHED`,`CANCELED`,`FAILED`,`UNKNOWABLE` |

#### Responses

```json
[
  {
    "jobId": "",
    "jobName": "",
    "jobStatus": "",
    "errorMsg": null,
    "createTime": "",
    "finishTime": "",
    "jobDag": {
      "jobId": "",
      "envOptions": [],
      "vertexInfoMap": [
        {
          "vertexId": 1,
          "type": "",
          "vertexName": "",
          "tablePaths": [
            ""
          ]
        }
      ],
      "pipelineEdges": {}
    },
    "metrics": ""
  }
]
```

</details>

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

### Returns System Monitoring Information

<details>
 <summary><code>GET</code> <code><b>/system-monitoring-information</b></code> <code>(Returns system monitoring information.)</code></summary>

#### Parameters

#### Responses

```json
[
  {
    "processors":"8",
    "physical.memory.total":"16.0G",
    "physical.memory.free":"16.3M",
    "swap.space.total":"0",
    "swap.space.free":"0",
    "heap.memory.used":"135.7M",
    "heap.memory.free":"440.8M",
    "heap.memory.total":"576.5M",
    "heap.memory.max":"3.6G",
    "heap.memory.used/total":"23.54%",
    "heap.memory.used/max":"3.73%",
    "minor.gc.count":"6",
    "minor.gc.time":"110ms",
    "major.gc.count":"2",
    "major.gc.time":"73ms",
    "load.process":"24.78%",
    "load.system":"60.00%",
    "load.systemAverage":"2.07",
    "thread.count":"117",
    "thread.peakCount":"118",
    "cluster.timeDiff":"0",
    "event.q.size":"0",
    "executor.q.async.size":"0",
    "executor.q.client.size":"0",
    "executor.q.client.query.size":"0",
    "executor.q.client.blocking.size":"0",
    "executor.q.query.size":"0",
    "executor.q.scheduled.size":"0",
    "executor.q.io.size":"0",
    "executor.q.system.size":"0",
    "executor.q.operations.size":"0",
    "executor.q.priorityOperation.size":"0",
    "operations.completed.count":"10",
    "executor.q.mapLoad.size":"0",
    "executor.q.mapLoadAllKeys.size":"0",
    "executor.q.cluster.size":"0",
    "executor.q.response.size":"0",
    "operations.running.count":"0",
    "operations.pending.invocations.percentage":"0.00%",
    "operations.pending.invocations.count":"0",
    "proxy.count":"8",
    "clientEndpoint.count":"0",
    "connection.active.count":"2",
    "client.connection.count":"0",
    "connection.count":"0"
  }
]
```

</details>

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

### Submit A Job

<details>
<summary><code>POST</code> <code><b>/submit-job</b></code> <code>(Returns jobId and jobName if job submitted successfully.)</code></summary>

#### Parameters

> |         name         |   type   | data type |            description            |
> |----------------------|----------|-----------|-----------------------------------|
> | jobId                | optional | string    | job id                            |
> | jobName              | optional | string    | job name                          |
> | isStartWithSavePoint | optional | string    | if job is started with save point |

#### Body

```json
{
    "env": {
        "job.mode": "batch"
    },
    "source": [
        {
            "plugin_name": "FakeSource",
            "result_table_name": "fake",
            "row.num": 100,
            "schema": {
                "fields": {
                    "name": "string",
                    "age": "int",
                    "card": "int"
                }
            }
        }
    ],
    "transform": [
    ],
    "sink": [
        {
            "plugin_name": "Console",
            "source_table_name": ["fake"]
        }
    ]
}
```

#### Responses

```json
{
    "jobId": 733584788375666689,
    "jobName": "rest_api_test"
}
```

</details>

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

### Batch Submit Jobs

<details>
<summary><code>POST</code> <code><b>/submit-jobs</b></code> <code>(Returns jobId and jobName if the job is successfully submitted.)</code></summary>

#### Parameters (add in the `params` field in the request body)

> |    Parameter Name     |   Required   |  Type   |              Description              |
> |----------------------|--------------|---------|---------------------------------------|
> | jobId                | optional     | string  | job id                                |
> | jobName              | optional     | string  | job name                              |
> | isStartWithSavePoint | optional     | string  | if the job is started with save point |

#### Request Body

```json
[
  {
    "params":{
      "jobId":"123456",
      "jobName":"SeaTunnel-01"
    },
    "env": {
      "job.mode": "batch"
    },
    "source": [
      {
        "plugin_name": "FakeSource",
        "result_table_name": "fake",
        "row.num": 1000,
        "schema": {
          "fields": {
            "name": "string",
            "age": "int",
            "card": "int"
          }
        }
      }
    ],
    "transform": [
    ],
    "sink": [
      {
        "plugin_name": "Console",
        "source_table_name": ["fake"]
      }
    ]
  },
  {
    "params":{
      "jobId":"1234567",
      "jobName":"SeaTunnel-02"
    },
    "env": {
      "job.mode": "batch"
    },
    "source": [
      {
        "plugin_name": "FakeSource",
        "result_table_name": "fake",
        "row.num": 1000,
        "schema": {
          "fields": {
            "name": "string",
            "age": "int",
            "card": "int"
          }
        }
      }
    ],
    "transform": [
    ],
    "sink": [
      {
        "plugin_name": "Console",
        "source_table_name": ["fake"]
      }
    ]
  }
]
```

#### Response

```json
[
  {
    "jobId": "123456",
    "jobName": "SeaTunnel-01"
  },{
    "jobId": "1234567",
    "jobName": "SeaTunnel-02"
  }
]
```

</details>

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

### Stop A Job

<details>
<summary><code>POST</code> <code><b>/stop-job</b></code> <code>(Returns jobId if job stoped successfully.)</code></summary>

#### Body

```json
{
    "jobId": 733584788375666689,
    "isStopWithSavePoint": false # if job is stopped with save point
}
```

#### Responses

```json
{
"jobId": 733584788375666689
}
```

</details>

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
### Batch Stop Jobs

<details>
<summary><code>POST</code> <code><b>/stop-jobs</b></code> <code>(Returns jobId if the job is successfully stopped.)</code></summary>

#### Request Body

```json
[
  {
    "jobId": 881432421482889220,
    "isStopWithSavePoint": false
  },
  {
    "jobId": 881432456517910529,
    "isStopWithSavePoint": false
  }
]
```

#### Response

```json
[
  {
    "jobId": 881432421482889220
  },
  {
    "jobId": 881432456517910529
  }
]
```

</details>

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
### Encrypt Config

<details>
<summary><code>POST</code> <code><b>/encrypt-config</b></code> <code>(Returns the encrypted config if config is encrypted successfully.)</code></summary>
For more information about customize encryption, please refer to the documentation [config-encryption-decryption](../connector-v2/Config-Encryption-Decryption.md).

#### Body

```json
{
    "env": {
        "parallelism": 1,
        "shade.identifier":"base64"
    },
    "source": [
        {
            "plugin_name": "MySQL-CDC",
            "schema" : {
                "fields": {
                    "name": "string",
                    "age": "int"
                }
            },
            "result_table_name": "fake",
            "parallelism": 1,
            "hostname": "127.0.0.1",
            "username": "seatunnel",
            "password": "seatunnel_password",
            "table-name": "inventory_vwyw0n"
        }
    ],
    "transform": [
    ],
    "sink": [
        {
            "plugin_name": "Clickhouse",
            "host": "localhost:8123",
            "database": "default",
            "table": "fake_all",
            "username": "seatunnel",
            "password": "seatunnel_password"
        }
    ]
}
```

#### Responses

```json
{
    "env": {
        "parallelism": 1,
        "shade.identifier": "base64"
    },
    "source": [
        {
            "plugin_name": "MySQL-CDC",
            "schema": {
                "fields": {
                    "name": "string",
                    "age": "int"
                }
            },
            "result_table_name": "fake",
            "parallelism": 1,
            "hostname": "127.0.0.1",
            "username": "c2VhdHVubmVs",
            "password": "c2VhdHVubmVsX3Bhc3N3b3Jk",
            "table-name": "inventory_vwyw0n"
        }
    ],
    "transform": [],
    "sink": [
        {
            "plugin_name": "Clickhouse",
            "host": "localhost:8123",
            "database": "default",
            "table": "fake_all",
            "username": "c2VhdHVubmVs",
            "password": "c2VhdHVubmVsX3Bhc3N3b3Jk"
        }
    ]
}
```

</details>


------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

### Update the tags of running node

<details><summary><code>POST</code><code><b>/update-tags</b></code><code>Because the update can only target a specific node, the current node's `ip:port` needs to be used for the update</code><code>(If the update is successful, return a success message)</code></summary>


#### update node tags
##### Body
If the request parameter is a `Map` object, it indicates that the tags of the current node need to be updated
```json
{
  "tag1": "dev_1",
  "tag2": "dev_2"
}
```
##### Responses

```json
{
  "status": "success",
  "message": "update node tags done."
}
```
#### remove node tags
##### Body
If the parameter is an empty `Map` object, it means that the tags of the current node need to be cleared
```json
{}
```
##### Responses

```json
{
  "status": "success",
  "message": "update node tags done."
}
```

#### Request parameter exception
- If the parameter body is empty

##### Responses

```json
{
    "status": "fail",
    "message": "Request body is empty."
}
```
- If the parameter is not a `Map` object
##### Responses

```json
{
  "status": "fail",
  "message": "Invalid JSON format in request body."
}
```
</details>

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

### Get Logs from All Nodes

<details>
 <summary><code>GET</code> <code><b>/logs/:jobId</b></code> <code>(Returns a list of logs.)</code></summary>

#### Request Parameters

#### Parameters (to be added in the `params` field of the request body)

> |    Parameter Name     |   Required   |  Type   |            Description            |
> |-----------------------|--------------|---------|------------------------------------|
> | jobId                 |   optional   | string  | job id                            |

If `jobId` is empty, the request will return logs from all nodes. Otherwise, it will return the list of logs for the specified `jobId` from all nodes.

#### Response

Returns a list of logs from the requested nodes along with their content.

#### Return List of All Log Files

If you want to view the log list first, you can retrieve it via a `GET` request: `http://localhost:8080/logs?format=json`

```json
[
  {
    "node": "localhost:8080",
    "logLink": "http://localhost:8080/logs/job-899485770241277953.log",
    "logName": "job-899485770241277953.log"
  },
  {
    "node": "localhost:8080",
    "logLink": "http://localhost:8080/logs/job-899470314109468673.log",
    "logName": "job-899470314109468673.log"
  }
]
```

Supported formats are `json` and `html`, with `html` as the default.

#### Examples

Retrieve logs for `jobId` `733584788375666689` across all nodes: `http://localhost:8080/logs/733584788375666689`
Retrieve the list of logs from all nodes: `http://localhost:8080/logs`
Retrieve the list of logs in JSON format: `http://localhost:8080/logs?format=json`
Retrieve the content of a specific log file: `http://localhost:8080/logs/job-898380162133917698.log`

</details>

### Get Log Content from a Single Node

<details>
 <summary><code>GET</code> <code><b>/log</b></code> <code>(Returns a list of logs.)</code></summary>

#### Response

Returns a list of logs from the requested node.

#### Examples

To get a list of logs from the current node: `http://localhost:5801/log`
To get the content of a log file: `http://localhost:5801/log/job-898380162133917698.log`

</details>

Commit message:

[Improve][Zeta] enable dynamic port

docs/en/seatunnel-engine/rest-api-v2.md, after:

---
sidebar_position: 12
---

# RESTful API V2

SeaTunnel has a monitoring API that can be used to query status and statistics of running jobs, as well as recent
completed jobs. The monitoring API is a RESTful API that accepts HTTP requests and responds with JSON data.

## Overview

The v2 version of the api uses jetty support. It is the same as the interface specification of v1 version
, you can specify the port and context-path by modifying the configuration items in `seatunnel.yaml`,
you can configure `enable-dynamic-port` to enable dynamic ports (the default port is accumulated starting from 8080), and the default is closed.


```yaml

seatunnel:
  engine:
    http:
      enable-http: true
      port: 8080
      enable-dynamic-port: false
```

Context-path can also be configured as follows:

```yaml

seatunnel:
  engine:
    http:
      enable-http: true
      port: 8080
      context-path: /seatunnel
```

## API reference

### Returns an overview over the Zeta engine cluster.

<details>
 <summary><code>GET</code> <code><b>/overview?tag1=value1&tag2=value2</b></code> <code>(Returns an overview over the Zeta engine cluster.)</code></summary>

#### Parameters

> |   name   |   type   | data type |                                             description                                              |
> |----------|----------|-----------|------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
> | tag_name | optional | string    | the tags filter, you can add tag filter to get those matched worker count, and slot on those workers |

#### Responses

```json
{
    "projectVersion":"2.3.5-SNAPSHOT",
    "gitCommitAbbrev":"DeadD0d0",
    "totalSlot":"0",
    "unassignedSlot":"0",
    "works":"1",
    "runningJobs":"0",
    "finishedJobs":"0",
    "failedJobs":"0",
    "cancelledJobs":"0"
}
```

**Notes:**
- If you use `dynamic-slot`, the `totalSlot` and `unassignedSlot` always be `0`. when you set it to fix slot number, it will return the correct total and unassigned slot number
- If the url has tag filter, the `works`, `totalSlot` and `unassignedSlot` will return the result on the matched worker. but the job related metric will always return the cluster level information.

</details>

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

### Returns An Overview And State Of All Jobs

<details>
 <summary><code>GET</code> <code><b>/running-jobs</b></code> <code>(Returns an overview over all jobs and their current state.)</code></summary>

#### Parameters

#### Responses

```json
[
  {
    "jobId": "",
    "jobName": "",
    "jobStatus": "",
    "envOptions": {
    },
    "createTime": "",
    "jobDag": {
      "jobId": "",
      "envOptions": [],
      "vertexInfoMap": [
        {
          "vertexId": 1,
          "type": "",
          "vertexName": "",
          "tablePaths": [
            ""
          ]
        }
      ],
      "pipelineEdges": {}
    },
    "pluginJarsUrls": [
    ],
    "isStartWithSavePoint": false,
    "metrics": {
      "sourceReceivedCount": "",
      "sinkWriteCount": ""
    }
  }
]
```

</details>

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

### Return Details Of A Job

<details>
 <summary><code>GET</code> <code><b>/job-info/:jobId</b></code> <code>(Return details of a job. )</code></summary>

#### Parameters

> | name  |   type   | data type | description |
> |-------|----------|-----------|-------------|
> | jobId | required | long      | job id      |

#### Responses

```json
{
  "jobId": "",
  "jobName": "",
  "jobStatus": "",
  "createTime": "",
  "jobDag": {
    "jobId": "",
    "envOptions": [],
    "vertexInfoMap": [
      {
        "vertexId": 1,
        "type": "",
        "vertexName": "",
        "tablePaths": [
          ""
        ]
      }
    ],
    "pipelineEdges": {}
  },
  "metrics": {
    "sourceReceivedCount": "",
    "sinkWriteCount": ""
  },
  "finishedTime": "",
  "errorMsg": null,
  "envOptions": {
  },
  "pluginJarsUrls": [
  ],
  "isStartWithSavePoint": false
}
```

`jobId`, `jobName`, `jobStatus`, `createTime`, `jobDag`, `metrics` always be returned.
`envOptions`, `pluginJarsUrls`, `isStartWithSavePoint` will return when job is running.
`finishedTime`, `errorMsg` will return when job is finished.

When we can't get the job info, the response will be:

```json
{
  "jobId" : ""
}
```

</details>

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

### Return Details Of A Job

This API has been deprecated, please use /job-info/:jobId instead

<details>
 <summary><code>GET</code> <code><b>/running-job/:jobId</b></code> <code>(Return details of a job. )</code></summary>

#### Parameters

> | name  |   type   | data type | description |
> |-------|----------|-----------|-------------|
> | jobId | required | long      | job id      |

#### Responses

```json
{
  "jobId": "",
  "jobName": "",
  "jobStatus": "",
  "createTime": "",
  "jobDag": {
    "jobId": "",
    "envOptions": [],
    "vertexInfoMap": [
      {
        "vertexId": 1,
        "type": "",
        "vertexName": "",
        "tablePaths": [
          ""
        ]
      }
    ],
    "pipelineEdges": {}
  },
  "metrics": {
    "SourceReceivedCount": "",
    "SourceReceivedQPS": "",
    "SourceReceivedBytes": "",
    "SourceReceivedBytesPerSeconds": "",
    "SinkWriteCount": "",
    "SinkWriteQPS": "",
    "SinkWriteBytes": "",
    "SinkWriteBytesPerSeconds": "",
    "TableSourceReceivedCount": {},
    "TableSourceReceivedBytes": {},
    "TableSourceReceivedBytesPerSeconds": {},
    "TableSourceReceivedQPS": {},
    "TableSinkWriteCount": {},
    "TableSinkWriteQPS": {},
    "TableSinkWriteBytes": {},
    "TableSinkWriteBytesPerSeconds": {}
  },
  "finishedTime": "",
  "errorMsg": null,
  "envOptions": {
  },
  "pluginJarsUrls": [
  ],
  "isStartWithSavePoint": false
}
```

`jobId`, `jobName`, `jobStatus`, `createTime`, `jobDag`, `metrics` always be returned.
`envOptions`, `pluginJarsUrls`, `isStartWithSavePoint` will return when job is running.
`finishedTime`, `errorMsg` will return when job is finished.

When we can't get the job info, the response will be:

```json
{
  "jobId" : ""
}
```

</details>

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

### Return All Finished Jobs Info

<details>
 <summary><code>GET</code> <code><b>/finished-jobs/:state</b></code> <code>(Return all finished Jobs Info.)</code></summary>

#### Parameters

> | name  |   type   | data type |                           description                            |
> |-------|----------|-----------|------------------------------------------------------------------|
> | state | optional | string    | finished job status. `FINISHED`,`CANCELED`,`FAILED`,`UNKNOWABLE` |

#### Responses

```json
[
  {
    "jobId": "",
    "jobName": "",
    "jobStatus": "",
    "errorMsg": null,
    "createTime": "",
    "finishTime": "",
    "jobDag": {
      "jobId": "",
      "envOptions": [],
      "vertexInfoMap": [
        {
          "vertexId": 1,
          "type": "",
          "vertexName": "",
          "tablePaths": [
            ""
          ]
        }
      ],
      "pipelineEdges": {}
    },
    "metrics": ""
  }
]
```

</details>

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

### Returns System Monitoring Information

<details>
 <summary><code>GET</code> <code><b>/system-monitoring-information</b></code> <code>(Returns system monitoring information.)</code></summary>

#### Parameters

#### Responses

```json
[
  {
    "processors":"8",
    "physical.memory.total":"16.0G",
    "physical.memory.free":"16.3M",
    "swap.space.total":"0",
    "swap.space.free":"0",
    "heap.memory.used":"135.7M",
    "heap.memory.free":"440.8M",
    "heap.memory.total":"576.5M",
    "heap.memory.max":"3.6G",
    "heap.memory.used/total":"23.54%",
    "heap.memory.used/max":"3.73%",
    "minor.gc.count":"6",
    "minor.gc.time":"110ms",
    "major.gc.count":"2",
    "major.gc.time":"73ms",
    "load.process":"24.78%",
    "load.system":"60.00%",
    "load.systemAverage":"2.07",
    "thread.count":"117",
    "thread.peakCount":"118",
    "cluster.timeDiff":"0",
    "event.q.size":"0",
    "executor.q.async.size":"0",
    "executor.q.client.size":"0",
    "executor.q.client.query.size":"0",
    "executor.q.client.blocking.size":"0",
    "executor.q.query.size":"0",
    "executor.q.scheduled.size":"0",
    "executor.q.io.size":"0",
    "executor.q.system.size":"0",
    "executor.q.operations.size":"0",
    "executor.q.priorityOperation.size":"0",
    "operations.completed.count":"10",
    "executor.q.mapLoad.size":"0",
    "executor.q.mapLoadAllKeys.size":"0",
    "executor.q.cluster.size":"0",
    "executor.q.response.size":"0",
    "operations.running.count":"0",
    "operations.pending.invocations.percentage":"0.00%",
    "operations.pending.invocations.count":"0",
    "proxy.count":"8",
    "clientEndpoint.count":"0",
    "connection.active.count":"2",
    "client.connection.count":"0",
    "connection.count":"0"
  }
]
```

</details>

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

### Submit A Job

<details>
<summary><code>POST</code> <code><b>/submit-job</b></code> <code>(Returns jobId and jobName if job submitted successfully.)</code></summary>

#### Parameters

> |         name         |   type   | data type |            description            |
> |----------------------|----------|-----------|-----------------------------------|
> | jobId                | optional | string    | job id                            |
> | jobName              | optional | string    | job name                          |
> | isStartWithSavePoint | optional | string    | if job is started with save point |

#### Body

```json
{
    "env": {
        "job.mode": "batch"
    },
    "source": [
        {
            "plugin_name": "FakeSource",
            "result_table_name": "fake",
            "row.num": 100,
            "schema": {
                "fields": {
                    "name": "string",
                    "age": "int",
                    "card": "int"
                }
            }
        }
    ],
    "transform": [
    ],
    "sink": [
        {
            "plugin_name": "Console",
            "source_table_name": ["fake"]
        }
    ]
}
```

#### Responses

```json
{
    "jobId": 733584788375666689,
    "jobName": "rest_api_test"
}
```

</details>

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

### Batch Submit Jobs

<details>
<summary><code>POST</code> <code><b>/submit-jobs</b></code> <code>(Returns jobId and jobName if the job is successfully submitted.)</code></summary>

#### Parameters (add in the `params` field in the request body)

> |    Parameter Name     |   Required   |  Type   |              Description              |
> |----------------------|--------------|---------|---------------------------------------|
> | jobId                | optional     | string  | job id                                |
> | jobName              | optional     | string  | job name                              |
> | isStartWithSavePoint | optional     | string  | if the job is started with save point |

#### Request Body

```json
[
  {
    "params":{
      "jobId":"123456",
      "jobName":"SeaTunnel-01"
    },
    "env": {
      "job.mode": "batch"
    },
    "source": [
      {
        "plugin_name": "FakeSource",
        "result_table_name": "fake",
        "row.num": 1000,
        "schema": {
          "fields": {
            "name": "string",
            "age": "int",
            "card": "int"
          }
        }
      }
    ],
    "transform": [
    ],
    "sink": [
      {
        "plugin_name": "Console",
        "source_table_name": ["fake"]
      }
    ]
  },
  {
    "params":{
      "jobId":"1234567",
      "jobName":"SeaTunnel-02"
    },
    "env": {
      "job.mode": "batch"
    },
    "source": [
      {
        "plugin_name": "FakeSource",
        "result_table_name": "fake",
        "row.num": 1000,
        "schema": {
          "fields": {
            "name": "string",
            "age": "int",
            "card": "int"
          }
        }
      }
    ],
    "transform": [
    ],
    "sink": [
      {
        "plugin_name": "Console",
        "source_table_name": ["fake"]
      }
    ]
  }
]
```

#### Response

```json
[
  {
    "jobId": "123456",
    "jobName": "SeaTunnel-01"
  },{
    "jobId": "1234567",
    "jobName": "SeaTunnel-02"
  }
]
```

</details>

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

### Stop A Job

<details>
<summary><code>POST</code> <code><b>/stop-job</b></code> <code>(Returns jobId if job stoped successfully.)</code></summary>

#### Body

```json
{
    "jobId": 733584788375666689,
    "isStopWithSavePoint": false # if job is stopped with save point
}
```

#### Responses

```json
{
"jobId": 733584788375666689
}
```

</details>

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
### Batch Stop Jobs

<details>
<summary><code>POST</code> <code><b>/stop-jobs</b></code> <code>(Returns jobId if the job is successfully stopped.)</code></summary>

#### Request Body

```json
[
  {
    "jobId": 881432421482889220,
    "isStopWithSavePoint": false
  },
  {
    "jobId": 881432456517910529,
    "isStopWithSavePoint": false
  }
]
```

#### Response

```json
[
  {
    "jobId": 881432421482889220
  },
  {
    "jobId": 881432456517910529
  }
]
```

</details>

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
### Encrypt Config

<details>
<summary><code>POST</code> <code><b>/encrypt-config</b></code> <code>(Returns the encrypted config if config is encrypted successfully.)</code></summary>
For more information about customize encryption, please refer to the documentation [config-encryption-decryption](../connector-v2/Config-Encryption-Decryption.md).

#### Body

```json
{
    "env": {
        "parallelism": 1,
        "shade.identifier":"base64"
    },
    "source": [
        {
            "plugin_name": "MySQL-CDC",
            "schema" : {
                "fields": {
                    "name": "string",
                    "age": "int"
                }
            },
            "result_table_name": "fake",
            "parallelism": 1,
            "hostname": "127.0.0.1",
            "username": "seatunnel",
            "password": "seatunnel_password",
            "table-name": "inventory_vwyw0n"
        }
    ],
    "transform": [
    ],
    "sink": [
        {
            "plugin_name": "Clickhouse",
            "host": "localhost:8123",
            "database": "default",
            "table": "fake_all",
            "username": "seatunnel",
            "password": "seatunnel_password"
        }
    ]
}
```

#### Responses

```json
{
    "env": {
        "parallelism": 1,
        "shade.identifier": "base64"
    },
    "source": [
        {
            "plugin_name": "MySQL-CDC",
            "schema": {
                "fields": {
                    "name": "string",
                    "age": "int"
                }
            },
            "result_table_name": "fake",
            "parallelism": 1,
            "hostname": "127.0.0.1",
            "username": "c2VhdHVubmVs",
            "password": "c2VhdHVubmVsX3Bhc3N3b3Jk",
            "table-name": "inventory_vwyw0n"
        }
    ],
    "transform": [],
    "sink": [
        {
            "plugin_name": "Clickhouse",
            "host": "localhost:8123",
            "database": "default",
            "table": "fake_all",
            "username": "c2VhdHVubmVs",
            "password": "c2VhdHVubmVsX3Bhc3N3b3Jk"
        }
    ]
}
```

</details>


------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

### Update the tags of running node

<details><summary><code>POST</code><code><b>/update-tags</b></code><code>Because the update can only target a specific node, the current node's `ip:port` needs to be used for the update</code><code>(If the update is successful, return a success message)</code></summary>


#### update node tags
##### Body
If the request parameter is a `Map` object, it indicates that the tags of the current node need to be updated
```json
{
  "tag1": "dev_1",
  "tag2": "dev_2"
}
```
##### Responses

```json
{
  "status": "success",
  "message": "update node tags done."
}
```
#### remove node tags
##### Body
If the parameter is an empty `Map` object, it means that the tags of the current node need to be cleared
```json
{}
```
##### Responses

```json
{
  "status": "success",
  "message": "update node tags done."
}
```

#### Request parameter exception
- If the parameter body is empty

##### Responses

```json
{
    "status": "fail",
    "message": "Request body is empty."
}
```
- If the parameter is not a `Map` object
##### Responses

```json
{
  "status": "fail",
  "message": "Invalid JSON format in request body."
}
```
</details>

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

### Get Logs from All Nodes

<details>
 <summary><code>GET</code> <code><b>/logs/:jobId</b></code> <code>(Returns a list of logs.)</code></summary>

#### Request Parameters

#### Parameters (to be added in the `params` field of the request body)

> |    Parameter Name     |   Required   |  Type   |            Description            |
> |-----------------------|--------------|---------|------------------------------------|
> | jobId                 |   optional   | string  | job id                            |

If `jobId` is empty, the request will return logs from all nodes. Otherwise, it will return the list of logs for the specified `jobId` from all nodes.

#### Response

Returns a list of logs from the requested nodes along with their content.

#### Return List of All Log Files

If you want to view the log list first, you can retrieve it via a `GET` request: `http://localhost:8080/logs?format=json`

```json
[
  {
    "node": "localhost:8080",
    "logLink": "http://localhost:8080/logs/job-899485770241277953.log",
    "logName": "job-899485770241277953.log"
  },
  {
    "node": "localhost:8080",
    "logLink": "http://localhost:8080/logs/job-899470314109468673.log",
    "logName": "job-899470314109468673.log"
  }
]
```

Supported formats are `json` and `html`, with `html` as the default.

#### Examples

Retrieve logs for `jobId` `733584788375666689` across all nodes: `http://localhost:8080/logs/733584788375666689`
Retrieve the list of logs from all nodes: `http://localhost:8080/logs`
Retrieve the list of logs in JSON format: `http://localhost:8080/logs?format=json`
Retrieve the content of a specific log file: `http://localhost:8080/logs/job-898380162133917698.log`

</details>

### Get Log Content from a Single Node

<details>
 <summary><code>GET</code> <code><b>/log</b></code> <code>(Returns a list of logs.)</code></summary>

#### Response

Returns a list of logs from the requested node.

#### Examples

To get a list of logs from the current node: `http://localhost:5801/log`
To get the content of a log file: `http://localhost:5801/log/job-898380162133917698.log`

</details>
