docs/en/connector-v2/sink/Mivlus.md, before:

# Milvus

> Milvus sink connector

## Description

Write data to Milvus or Zilliz Cloud

## Key Features

- [x] [batch](../../concept/connector-v2-features.md)
- [x] [exactly-once](../../concept/connector-v2-features.md)
- [ ] [column projection](../../concept/connector-v2-features.md)

## Data Type Mapping

|  Milvus Data Type   | SeaTunnel Data Type |
|---------------------|---------------------|
| INT8                | TINYINT             |
| INT16               | SMALLINT            |
| INT32               | INT                 |
| INT64               | BIGINT              |
| FLOAT               | FLOAT               |
| DOUBLE              | DOUBLE              |
| BOOL                | BOOLEAN             |
| JSON                | STRING              |
| ARRAY               | ARRAY               |
| VARCHAR             | STRING              |
| FLOAT_VECTOR        | FLOAT_VECTOR        |
| BINARY_VECTOR       | BINARY_VECTOR       |
| FLOAT16_VECTOR      | FLOAT16_VECTOR      |
| BFLOAT16_VECTOR     | BFLOAT16_VECTOR     |
| SPARSE_FLOAT_VECTOR | SPARSE_FLOAT_VECTOR |

## Sink Options

|         Name         |  Type   | Required |           Default            |                        Description                        |
|----------------------|---------|----------|------------------------------|-----------------------------------------------------------|
| url                  | String  | Yes      | -                            | The URL to connect to Milvus or Zilliz Cloud.             |
| token                | String  | Yes      | -                            | User:password                                             |
| database             | String  | No       | -                            | Write data to which database, default is source database. |
| schema_save_mode     | enum    | No       | CREATE_SCHEMA_WHEN_NOT_EXIST | Auto create table when table not exist.                   |
| enable_auto_id       | boolean | No       | false                        | Primary key column enable autoId.                         |
| enable_upsert        | boolean | No       | false                        | Upsert data not insert.                                   |
| enable_dynamic_field | boolean | No       | true                         | Enable create table with dynamic field.                   |
| batch_size           | int     | No       | 1000                         | Write batch size.                                         |

## Task Example

```bash
sink {
  Milvus {
    url = "http://127.0.0.1:19530"
    token = "username:password"
    batch_size = 1000
  }
}
```

Commit message:

update milvus connector to support dynamic schema, failed retry, etc.

docs/en/connector-v2/sink/Mivlus.md, after:

# Milvus

> Milvus sink connector

## Description

This Milvus sink connector write data to Milvus or Zilliz Cloud, it has the following features:
- support read and write data by partition
- support write dynamic schema data from Metadata Column
- json data will be converted to json string and sink as json as well
- retry automatically to bypass ratelimit and grpc limit
## Key Features

- [x] [batch](../../concept/connector-v2-features.md)
- [x] [exactly-once](../../concept/connector-v2-features.md)
- [ ] [column projection](../../concept/connector-v2-features.md)

## Data Type Mapping

|  Milvus Data Type   | SeaTunnel Data Type |
|---------------------|---------------------|
| INT8                | TINYINT             |
| INT16               | SMALLINT            |
| INT32               | INT                 |
| INT64               | BIGINT              |
| FLOAT               | FLOAT               |
| DOUBLE              | DOUBLE              |
| BOOL                | BOOLEAN             |
| JSON                | STRING              |
| ARRAY               | ARRAY               |
| VARCHAR             | STRING              |
| FLOAT_VECTOR        | FLOAT_VECTOR        |
| BINARY_VECTOR       | BINARY_VECTOR       |
| FLOAT16_VECTOR      | FLOAT16_VECTOR      |
| BFLOAT16_VECTOR     | BFLOAT16_VECTOR     |
| SPARSE_FLOAT_VECTOR | SPARSE_FLOAT_VECTOR |

## Sink Options

|         Name         | Type    | Required |           Default            | Description                                               |
|----------------------|---------|----------|------------------------------|-----------------------------------------------------------|
| url                  | String  | Yes      | -                            | The URL to connect to Milvus or Zilliz Cloud.             |
| token                | String  | Yes      | -                            | User:password                                             |
| database             | String  | No       | -                            | Write data to which database, default is source database. |
| schema_save_mode     | enum    | No       | CREATE_SCHEMA_WHEN_NOT_EXIST | Auto create table when table not exist.                   |
| enable_auto_id       | boolean | No       | false                        | Primary key column enable autoId.                         |
| enable_upsert        | boolean | No       | false                        | Upsert data not insert.                                   |
| enable_dynamic_field | boolean | No       | true                         | Enable create table with dynamic field.                   |
| batch_size           | int     | No       | 1000                         | Write batch size.                                         |
| partition_key        | String  | No       |                              | Milvus partition key field                                |                                         

## Task Example

```bash
sink {
  Milvus {
    url = "http://127.0.0.1:19530"
    token = "username:password"
    batch_size = 1000
  }
}
```
